This is a review of the MS "F=ma Lab Report" by Govardhanen et al. The MS
has some problems with it and I recommend rejection; the methods are not
reproducible and there are only two replicate measurements. 

Title: The title is odd. It looks like this is just someone's lab report
from a class.

Abstract: The abstract claims data were collected using motion sensors, though
there is no discussion of these. The abstract is very densely worded but says
nothing about the specific design of the experiment and the findings. It might
be better to write it more clearly to say what was done and what was found.

MS organization: The authors added several sections to their work that are not
normal and ought to be collapsed into the standard format for science work of
introduction, methods and materials, results, discussion.

Introduction: The introduction sounds fine but it does not set up what
hypotheses are to be tested nor what the guiding research question is. These
were buried later in the text under Experimental Hypotheses and Experiment
Design (which reads as methods). Of the hypotheses given, 2 seem actually tested
by the data given here and they could be written more succinctly in equation
form. The third regarding tension on the string seems to never really have been
tested and so is irrelevant. 

Methods and materials: (= experiment planning, plus experiment design, plus
analysis). The methods appear to be to use different masses in the experimental
setup of one hanging mass and one cart connected by a string with a pulley. No
picture or drawing is given and no sources are given for key items so I am
unsure I could replicate what they did. The authors specify "motion sensors
or high speed cameras" as if they do not know what they did; I certainly don't
know what they did! It is nice they call out which variables are independent
(mass), which dependent (acceleration), and which are controlled - but they use
a lot of space to do so; and they do not explain how they control the ones
that are controlled or if, in their design of experiement, they randomize or
do anything to control systemic bias.

Results: Results are very difficult to follow because the authors organized
their results like a MathCAD or ChatGPT calculation worksheet. It appears they
have calculated the acceleration by observing the position of the cart
and breaking it into 10 cm intervals; finding the time elapsed for each interval
as multiple repeated measures of the acceleration for one trial. They get
an observed average acceleration for the cart of around 0.4 m/s2.

What is confusing here is they give a "force applied" value of 8N (or 14N for
Trial II) that does not seem to match anything, nor do they explain how they
applied the force or how they know it is 8 (or 14) N. This is not replicable,
and I have no way to understand why the "theoretical acceleration" is so much
higher than what they observed.

Discussion: The ms claims friction can make up the difference between the
observed acceleration and the very large "theoretical acceleration" but this is
unconvincing here. The authors do not discuss sources of experimental error
in their measurements and it appears there are only 2 trials completed.
